When I joined La Ruche Qui dit Oui (The Food Assembly in the UK), the company was set to appear in a TV program two weeks later. I was informed by the team that the website always crashed during heavy traffic. That particular program is known in France to be the equivalent of the Slashdot effect (it even has [a Tumblr](https://effetcapital.tumblr.com)).

With such short notice, we did not have time to optimise all the critical paths so we needed to take down some features. I defined the priorities during the event: maintain the website for existing customers, best effort for new visitors. Most of the website was only accessible after logging in so I thought we could disable registration and replace the registration form with a form to collect email addresses. I had to convince some product owners that this was the best approach. They thought it was more important to get new users registered. I reminded them that our users make a living on our platform and the broadcasting hour was during our peak usage so a disruption would damage our reputation and the revenue of our users. Also with our email communication after the event, we would get engaged new users to subscribe anyway.

We split the work among team members. Some people worked on making sure all publicly accessible resources were cached. Our system administrator added a few more servers. Others, including me, worked on that new form and a system to let our on-call person enable it in an instant.

We had to enable that system but we managed to keep the service online for the first time, hooray! Instead of complaining that they couldn't use the platform, our customers were happy to share the program on social networks, giving us another boost. In the following weeks, I was paying attention to our monitoring to evaluate where we could improve things before an eventual new TV program. I assumed that our database was the bottleneck as it is often the case. But it seemed that our application servers were the first bottleneck. I should have verified my assumption.
